# Future Recruitment
This project involves revising PAST's Semester 2 2025 recruitment process.

## Background
PAST is a relatively new team that is still developing processes, one important one being recruitment. There is large room for improving PAST's recruitment process. 

NOTE: PAST has updated its recruitment process since Semester 1 2025, so some of recruitment information is not 100% accurate.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables
1. Summarise PAST's recruitment process from how you understand it.
2. Create an improved diagram outlining PAST's recruitment process.
3. Identify any issues or confusing/inefficient with the current recruitment process in your logbook.
4. Gather feedback from Recruits about PAST's current recruitment process.
- This could involve developing questions, conducting interviews, creating surveys etc.
- Summarise the feedback in your logbook.
2. Use the feedback gathered to come up with at least 3 suggestions to improve the recruitment process.
3. Create a powerpoint that summarises a revised recruitment process, backed with reasoning from the feedback you collected.
4. Pitch your revised recruitment process to the team.

## Resources to get you started
- See [Onboarding Resources](https://github.com/PerthAerospaceStudentTeam/Onboarding/tree/main/0.%20Resources) for the 
Onboarding Handbook, Recruitment Process Diagram etc.
- Talk to members and recruits about their opinions on recruitment (and to make sure you're getting the most up-to-date information).
- PAST HR might already have some ideas for future improvements.
