# Detumbling Algorithm

This project involves learning about control laws and simulating a B-dot controller for detumbling.

## Background

- When a CubeSat is released from its deployer/flight provider, it has angular spin that must be reduced before mission operations can take place.
- The B-dot controller is a common algorithm used to dampen the CubeSat's initial angular velocity.
- It is called "B-dot" because it involves using the rate of change ('dot') of the magnetic field vector ('B'), to produce a torque via a magnetorquer to counteract this rate of change, in each of the 3 rotational axis.
- Successful Detumbling is mission critical for space flight, because if a CubeSat never de-tumbles, then nothing else can happen.
- This project is fairly code and simulation intesive, so keep that in mind.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables

1. Research the B-dot controller and attitude dynamics for CubeSat, creating notes in your logbook. You should include mathematical relationships for the control equation and CubeSat dynamics and annotate them.
2. Create a flow chart of how you can simulate the detumbling algorithm to produce a graph of angular velocity over time.
3. Create functions in MATLAB to:
   3.1.) Obtain the magnetic field in the body-fixed-frame from cartesian co-ordinates
   3.2.) Obtain the magnetic dipole moment of a magnetorquer from the supplied current
   3.3.) Take the derivative of the state vector (using rotational and translational dynamics equations you previously studied)
4. Use these functions to simulate the detumbling algorithm and produce a graph of angular velocity over time, showing it reduces to near 0.

**Extension**: 

1. Plot the CubeSat's orbit.
2. Animate the CubeSat's rotation.
3. Add sensor noise for magnetic field and inertial measurement readings.

## Resources to get you started

- [B-dot using Magnetorquers Video - Monte Carlo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uNZeDMmDdbo&list=PL_D7_GvGz-v3mDQ9iR-cfjXsQf4DeR1_H&index=8&t=398s&ab_channel=MonteCarlos)
- [ADCS Software Lab: Detumbling Simulation using Magetorquers and Bdot Control](https://pressbooks-dev.oer.hawaii.edu/epet302/chapter/software-lab-detumbling-simulation-using-magetorquers-and-bdot-control/)
- [CubeSat Detumbling Simulation Paper](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/369627277_CubeSat_Detumbling_Simulation)
- [B-dot algorithm Paper (Math-heavy)](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=7171005)
- [CubeSat Detumbling Simulator GitHub](https://github.com/echristhuraj/CubeSatDetumblingSimulator)

## Tips

- You need to be quite fluent in linear algebra to understand the equations.
- You should add simulated sensor noise, drift, or decrease time step intervals to your simulation to test it's robustness.
- You will need to use the IGRF model to obtain the magnetic field in the earth inertial reference frame, and apply a transformation matrix to obtain the magnetic field in the CubeSat's reference frame.
- The state vector contains all information required to describe the CubeSat's motion. This typically includes the velocity, acceleration, quaternion and angular velocity.
- Pre-made time integrators in MATLAB are slower, but more accurate compared to a self-made integration methods like Euler or RK4.
