# Helmholtz Cage
This project involves researching and designing a HelmHoltz cage for PAST. 

## Background
Testing attitude control algorithms is arguably the most difficult part of ADCS, since on earth it is difficult to simulate the conditions of free-fall. Moreover, magnetorquers are very weak, so it is difficult to see its
actuation effects happen. A Helmholtz cage is essentially large hoops of copper wire built like a cage. Running current through this wire generates strong magnetic fields. Having control over the external magnetic field is
useful for ADCS testing, as we can strengthen the external field to see attitude control in action, or nullify the external magnetic field for calibration/testing, or simulate the magnetic field environment in LEO.

Binar has a Helmholtz cage, but apparently it is unreliable and may not work anymore. Given the criticality of a Helmholtz cage for ADCS testing, it would be very beneficial for PAST Members to create one for our own use.

## Project Outcomes ☑️
1. Conduct research / literature review into HelmHoltz cage designs
- Keep notes in your logbook, particularly specifications such as dimensions, materials, components and manufacturing methods etc.
2. Develop concept designs for the Helmholtz cage
- Keep in mind feasibility. Consider costs, complexity, size etc.
3. Select one of your designs. Explain why you selected it.
4. Create a design plan for your chosen design
- Components you will need to procure - a costs table
- Manufacturing plan - how to wind the large hoops?
- CAD Models any required parts in AutoDesk Inventor

## Resources to get you started
- [HelmHoltz Cage Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M7ZJ4elroww&ab_channel=CharlesGrassin)
- [Helmholtz cage design and validation for nanosatellites
HWIL testing Paper](https://shura.shu.ac.uk/24854/1/TAES-201800546R_manuscript_doublecolumn.pdf_)
- [Design of a 2mx2mx2m Helmholtz Cage](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9734308)
