# Horizon Sensor
This project involves researching the possibility of using a horizon sensor for PAST's CubeSat. You will develop a concept design for the horizon sensor, and create software to determine the nadir vector. 

## Background
- PAST's future CubeSat mission may involve imaging of the earth, which requires earth (nadir) pointing capability.
- Other attitude sensors (sun sensors and magnetometers) have limitations. E.g sun sensors are unreliable during eclipse periods
and magnetometers are not highly accurate due to earth's changing magnetic field.
- Valuable attitude information (nadir direction) may be obtained through a horizon sensor.
- Horizon sensors detect points on the earth's horizon.
- The appearance of the earth is more uniform at infrared wavelengths, especially in the narrow 14–16um emission band of the CO2 molecule, so almost all horizon
sensors are designed to detect infrared radiation in this range.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables
1. Create a table to summarise the requirements of using horizon sensors to achieve nadir pointing (consider space, mass, power and computing requirements, and cost). 
2. Research estimation methods to determine the nadir vector, and methods to achieve nadir pointing from horizon sensor dataa. Summarise your findings in your logbook using appropriate diagrams.
3. Create a flow chart for the algorithm used to determine the nadir vector.
5. Search and select horizon sensors to be tested. Look into: static vs scanning sensors, Infrared sensors with relavent ranges, Thermopiles.
6. Design the electronics to test your chosen horizon sensor in Altium designer (or work with an Avionics Recruit to do this).
7. Turn your flow chart into software that can be interfaced with the electronics.

## Resources to get you started
- [Attitude Determination using Infrared Earth Horizon Sensors](https://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3096&context=smallsat)
- [Infrared Horizon Sensor for CubeSat implementation](http://researchgate.net/publication/325870318_Infrared_Horizon_Sensor_for_CubeSat_implementation)
(look at Section 4: Hardware Design)
- [Improved Infrared Horizon Sensor for Small Satellite Orbital Navigation - By a Curtin PhD student](https://youtu.be/ipN0h2YGPOc?si=vUztUbDYoGciM7yc)
- [GitHub for Infrared Horizon Sensor](https://github.com/gotenham/infraredHorizonSensor)
