 # Intro to ADCS
The Attitude Determination and Control System (ADCS) is a critical subsystem in CubeSats that manages the orientation (attitude) of the satellite in space. 
It is responsible for determining the satellite's orientation relative to some reference frame (such as the Earth), stabilising/detumbling, and controlling the orientation to achieve specific mission objectives like pointing cameras or antennas.

## ADCS Resources
- [Fundementals of Spacecraft ADCS_compressed.pdf](https://github.com/PerthAerospaceStudentTeam/Onboarding/blob/main/3.%20ADCS%20Onboarding/Fundementals%20of%20Spacecraft%20ADCS_compressed.pdf)
- [ADCS Development For Student CubeSats - TalTech Case Study](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/353809983_ADCS_development_for_student_CubeSat_satellites_-_TalTech_case_study)

## 🛰️ Attitude Sensors
Sensors provide data that can be used to calculate the CubeSat's current attitude. Attitude Sensors can include: 
- Sun sensors
- Magnetic field sensors (magnetometers)
- Angular rate sensors (gyroscope)
- Horizon sensors
- Star trackers

These sensors provide vector measurements in the CubeSat's reference frame. For a 1U CubeSat, magnetometers, gyroscopes and sun sensors are most common. 

## 🛰️ Attitude Determination
Attitude is calculated by comparing vectors measured by sensors onboard the CubeSat (body fixed frame) with vectors in a fixed 
reference frame (e.g. Earth-Centred-Inertial frame). Attitude must first be initialised (obtain the first value) then a recursive
method of attitude estimation can be used. Some methods of attitude determination include:
- TRIAD Algorithm
- Davenport's q-method
- Filtering techniques such as: Complimentary Filter, Unscented Kalman Filter, Extended Kalman Filter.

Attitude can be parameterised in many ways, such as:
- Attitude/Rotation Matrix
- Euler angles
- Quaternion

Attitude matrices and euler angles suffer from gimbal lock, i.e there is no unique solution when solving for attitude. 
This is why quaternions are generally the preferred mathematical framework to represent attitude, however they are less intuitive to understand.

## 🛰️ Attitude Control
Actuators apply torques to enable attitude control.
Common actuation methods for CubeSats include Magnetorquers and Reaction Wheels.
Magnetorquers are variable electromagnets that interact with the earth's magnetic field to produce control torques.
Reaction wheels are spinning disks that produce a reaction torque through the conservation principle of angular momentum. 
ADCS has some operational modes of attitude control: 
- Detumbling
- Nadir (earth) Pointing
- Sun Tracking

For Detumbling, the B-dot algorithm is most popularly used.

## 🛰️ Attitude Dynamics
Attitude dynamics refers to the equations governing the rotational motion of the CubeSat. These equations relate things like moment of inertia, torques, angular rates and angular momentum, which you may be familiar with if you have previously studied Mechanics. Understanding the attitude dynamics of the CubeSat is essential to ADCS, because it enables us to model how the CubeSat will respond to control inputs, i.e. how applied torques affect the angular velocity and attitude quaternion. Search "Euler Rigid Body Dynamics" for the key equations.

Models derived from the equations of attitude dynamics can be used to propagate the CubeSat's attitude over time (attitude representation, angular velocity). Note that attitude dynamics involve cross products and thus are non-linear, so methods for linear time invariant (LTI) systems do not apply unless the system linearized. 

## Notes
- Not all CubeSat missions require full attitude control. ADCS is complex and requires rigorous testing to get correct, so
  many CubeSats have limited ADCS such as passive methods of attitude control, or only detumbling capabilities.
- Detumbling does not require attitude knowledge.
- Quaternions are 4-dimensional vectors with 1 scalar and 3 imaginary components, and are thus it is difficult to intuitively grasp their operations. Don't waste your time on this (unless you want to!), because it is sufficient to just be able to apply their properties.
