# Horizon Sensor

## Background
- PAST's future CubeSat mission may involve imaging of the earth, which requires earth (nadir) pointing capability.
- Other attitude sensors (sun sensors and magnetometers) have limitations. E.g sun sensors are unreliable during eclipse periods
and magnetometers are not highly accurate due to earth's changing magnetic field.
- Valuable attitude information (nadir direction) may be obtained through a horizon sensor.
- Horizon sensors detect points on the earth's horizon.
- The appearance of the earth is more uniform at infrared wavelengths, especially in the narrow 14–16um emission band of the CO2 molecule, so almost all horizon
sensors are designed to detect infrared radiation in this range.

## Project Objectives
- Evaluate the feasibility of utilising horizon sensors to achieve nadir pointing (consider space, mass, power and computing requirements, and cost.)
- Investigate estimation methods to determine the nadir vector, and methods to achieve nadir pointing from horizon sensor data.
- Search and select horizon sensors to be tested. Look into: static vs scanning sensors, Infrared sensors with relavent ranges, Thermopiles.
- Design horizon sensor system that could be integrated into our CubeSat. 
This should include a plan for mechanical, electrical and software integration. Please communicate your ideas with PAST's ADCS members.

## Resources to get you started
- [Attitude Determination using Infrared Earth Horizon Sensors](https://digitalcommons.usu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=3096&context=smallsat)
- [Infrared Horizon Sensor for CubeSat implementation](http://researchgate.net/publication/325870318_Infrared_Horizon_Sensor_for_CubeSat_implementation)
(look at Section 4: Hardware Design)
