# Attitude Determination Algorithm
This project involves learning methods for CubeSat Attitude Determination and simulating them. You will also play a foundational role in creating ADCS resources for other PAST members to learn from. 

## Background
- The attitude (or orientation) of a CubeSat can be described in a few different forms: rotation matrix, Euler Angles, quaternions.
- These forms of parameterization each have their strengths and weaknesses (e.g. computing efficiency, avoiding gimbal lock)
- To parameterize attitude, various methods have been formulated.
- There are typically two steps of attitude determination: 1) Attitude Initialisation. 2) Recursive methods for Attitude Estimation
- Some of these methods include: TRIAD Algorithm, Davenport's Q-method, Complimentary Filter, Extended Kalman Filter, Quaternion Estimation Algorithm (QUEST).
- This project is suitable for someone with a strong foundation or willing to learn linear algebra/maths.
- You are not expected to complete the project.
  
## ☑️ Project Objectives
1. Research and understand common methods of attitude representation (attitude matrix, quaternion).
2. Review the literature on attitude determination methods for CubeSats (e.g. TRIAD algorithm and filtering techniques).
- PAST's ADCS team is particularly interested in getting more members knowledgable in recursive filtering techniques (EKF, UKF etc.) as we have not had team members research deeply into this yet.
- Take notes in your logbook. Annotate relevant equations.
- Create a block diagram of how sensor data is used to compute orientation.
3. Create a flow chart of outlining how you can simulate an attitude determination algorithm using a program of your choice (MATLAB reccommended).
- You should take sensor data as inputs and final output is an attitude representation (attitude matrix or quaternion).
- Eventually this entire algorithm will be abstracted to be a single function, something like get_quaternion();
4. Implement your flowchart/software plan in MATLAB
5. Add simulated sensor noise to your algorithm and analyse it's performance.
6. Create a plan of how to translate the attitude determination algorithm into software to run on a microcontoller.

## Resources to get you started
- For background knowledge: [Dr Shane Ross (THE GOAT)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCd-leV8OkU&t=1266s) - his videos on rigid body kinematics also introduce the
  concept of attitude really well. His lecture notes are also linked in the description of his videos.
- [Attitude Determination using two vector measurements - NASA Publication](https://ntrs.nasa.gov/api/citations/19990052720/downloads/19990052720.pdf)
- Fundementals of Spacecraft ADCS Textbook in Intro to ADCS
- Look for open-source code of Attitude Determination Simulations
