# Orbital Propagator
This project involves creating software to propagate the CubeSat's orbital position through time. 

## Background
An orbital propagator is a computer program that is used to compute the position and velocity of an earth-orbiting satellite using a compatible element set. TLE (two line element set) is the standardized format for satellite orbital information. 

To obtain vectors in the Earth Inertial Reference Frame, the position of the satellite must be passed through a reference model, e.g the IGRF model for the magnetic field vector.
If a GNSS module is not used on board the CubeSat, another method of obtaining position information is to use the NORAD Satellite tracking service to send TLE data to the CubeSat once every time interval. This position data must be propagated to obtain positions when the TLE is not available.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables
1. Research Orbital Mechanics of a CubeSat in low earth orbit, annotating relevant equations.
2. Research the NORAD Satellite Service and TLEs. In your logbook, explain how they can be used to obtain position data onboard the CubeSat, and list pros and cons of using an Orbital Propagator in comparison to a GNSS module.
3. Plan a program that can take in TLE data and output positions of the CubeSat in future time instances. Create a flow chart of your software and explain it in your logbook.
4. Code your program in a language of choice (Python or MATLAB recommended).
5. Extend your program to create visualisations of the CubeSat's Orbit.

## Resources to get you started
- [CubeSat Orbit and Attitude Model Videos - Monte Carlo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k1r-cGzDhgo&t=73s&ab_channel=MonteCarlos)
- Keywords to search for: "Orbital Simulations", "CubeSat Orbital Propagator", "NORAD Satellite Tracking Service"
- Search for open source code available
