# PCB-Embedded Planar Magnetorquer
This project will involve researching and evaluating the feasibility of using an PCB-Embedded Planar Magnetorquer/s for ADCS. If deemed suitable, you may begin designing the PCB in Altium Designer. Since this PCB design will be tedious, you may also investigate ways to automate the routing process.

## Background
- Magnetorquers are essentially electromagnets, i.e coils of conductive wire. 
- Varying the current through this wire provides a way to control the magnetic field produced by the magnetorquer.
- This magnetic field interacts with earth's magnetic field to produce control torques. 
- Torque produced is given by the cross product of the magnetorquer's magnetic dipole moment with the external magnetic field.
- Typically magnetorquers are made by winding copper wire around a ferromagnetic rod, or a square frame for the z-axis. 
- These torque rods take up significant mass and space budget in the CubeSat.
- A method that could overcome this issue is embedding magnetorquers in a PCB,  however it requires further research.

## Project Outcomes
- Research the current literature around PCB-embedded magnetorquers.
- Evaluate whether PCB-embedded magnetorquers are a feasible and beneficial for PAST's CubeSat and ADCS.
- Investigate how different parameters, i.e winding patterns, trace widths (and resistance), and currents affect the magnetorquer's magnetic dipole moment. The maximum PCB form factor should be 87mmx87mm.
	- Use Altium designer to model the PCB
Extension: develop software to determine parameters that optimise the magnetic dipole moment under constraints (board space, max current). I have seen this be used in conjunction with auto-routing to make the PCB design less tedious.

## Resources to get you started
- https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S004579062300143X
- https://www.researchgate.net/publication/370434716_PCB-integrated_embedded_planar_magnetorquers_for_small_satellites_intelligent_detumbling
- https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9216000
