# Real-Time Operating System
Develop an understanding of how to effectively use a real-time OS in embedded applications. 

## Background 
An operating system manages the allocation of system resources to the various tasks that need to be performed. Well known examples of an OS include: Windows, Mac, Linux, and Android. These are all focused on providing the smoothest experience for the user. In an embedded system environment we will typically use a real-time OS which is designed to meet strict timing deadlines to ensure that the system can respond quickly to its environment. We are currently making use of FreeRTOS because it is free to use and has package support built into the STM32CubeIDE.   

## Project Deliverables
- Explain what a queue, mutex and semaphore are in the context of an operating system. Describe a suitable use case for each. 
- Re-create the LED blink program from 5.3 but use two seperate tasks to switch the LED on and off at different rates.
- Create a program that can safely transfer data between two tasks. 
    - Some examples of data that could be transferred: Current iteration number, the number of blinks to do, the speed of blinks. 
- Provide an Inter-Process Communication (IPC) Diagram or Task Synchronization Flowchart. This should outline how the processes interact, share resources, and avoid race conditions

## Extra deliverables
 - Research how an RTOS could be used in a Flight Computer
 - Research could include: 
    - Which tasks the system would be responsible for, eg: polling subsystems, creating packets, sending packets, responding to commands
    - Which tasks require the highest priority
    - How the system would handle task failures

## Resources to get you started 
- [FreeRTOS](https://freertos.org/)
- [Setup Video Guide](https://youtu.be/OPrcpbKNSjU?si=bKYloDzACBLvXzbz)
