# Device Drivers 
Gain experience writing device drivers and confirm your code works with a testboard. 

## Background 
Drivers act as a form of encapsulation, hiding the low level functionality of the hardware from the rest of the code. This is achieved by enclosing the hardware behaviour in a function that only exposes the high level behaviour to the rest of the system. 

The Functional Flight Storage (FFS) project is used by the flight computer to store any data that is too large to keep in RAM. The Github repository for the project can be found here: [PAST - Functional Flight Storage](https://github.com/PerthAerospaceStudentTeam/Functional_Flight_Storage/tree/main)

The GNSS modules used for GNSS Location and Beaconing (GLoBe) have to communicate to the flight computer on the High Altitude Balloon and extract the necessary information to store. The Github repository for this project can be found here: [PAST - GNSS Location and Beaconing](https://github.com/PerthAerospaceStudentTeam/GLoBe/tree/main)
- The driver here is a very basic working prototype

## Project Deliverables
Create your own implementation of the drivers for FFS or GLoBe.

For FFS
- You will need to be able to support both reading and writing data.

For GLoBe
- You will need to be able to at least support UART communication with the NEO-M9N with at least NMEA messages
- You will need to be able to support the configuration of the NEO-M9N settings
    - The module defaults to sending data every second through the IO lines, this means that the flight computer must be ready for the chip to send it data every second
    - Instead, have it so the flight computer can request for GNSS data, when it is required by the flight computer
    - Another config is to make the UTC time output be to the 0.1s instead of rounding to each second
- Some form of check to ensure that the data obtained is valid & correct, for NMEA, a checksum is used and each message starts with a $ and ends with a * with the checksum following it


## Resources
- Datasheet for components used on FSS [link missing]
- Schematic for FSS [link missing]
- ublox NEO-M9N [product page](https://www.u-blox.com/en/product/neo-m9n-module?legacy=Current#Documentation-&-resources)
- Software Interface Documentation for GLoBe [ublox NEO-M9N Interface](https://content.u-blox.com/sites/default/files/u-blox-M9-SPG-4.04_InterfaceDescription_UBX-21022436.pdf)

## Tips
- Try looking at the Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL) that STM has created for their boards as a starting point. 
- Make sure to comment your code
