# Finite State Machine
For this project you will be creating a simulated model of a simple flight computer. This model should be able to change operation modes based on the external inputs it receives. 

## Background 
A finite state machine (FSM) is a mathematical model used to represent a system the can be in exactly one state out of a finite number of possible states. This can help simplify a complex system by dividing its behaviour discrete states and actions that respond to specific stimuli.  

## Task Requirements 
- The FSM should consist of the following states:
    - BOOT - inital state of the flight computer 
    - IDLE - system is between tasks
    - NOMINAL - payload and sensor operation 
    - LOW_POWER - system has no active tasks and is conserving power by shutting off subsystems
    - FAULT - system has encountered an error
    - SAFE - recovery mode, some subsystems may be disabled
- All states except for BOOT must connect to at least 2 other states?
- You may decide what triggers a state transition, but it should make sense.
    
## Project Deliverables
~~- Design a FSM that controls the behaviour of a LED connected to a microcontroller board. 
    - Two push buttons will be used to control the LED. 
    - One button should cycle the state, the other toggles the functionality within each state.~~
~~- State behavior:
    - On/Off
    - morse code presets (SOS, HELLO)
    - morse code (student name)~~
- 
~~- Implement the FSM in code and simulate it using Wokwi~~
~~- Once your FSM has been tested with the simulator and works, build it with real components.~~

- A flowchart that represents the behaviour of the FSM
- Implement your FSM in C on a STM32 [number goes here]
    - Make use of GPIO ports to control LEDs so you can output the current state of the FSM
    - Provide simulated sensor data to the board via serial
 
###### Stretch Goal
~~- Add a third button that can toggle the brightness of the LED, regardless of what state it is in.~~

## Resources 
- [Wokwi](https://wokwi.com/)
- [Free Flowchart Software](https://www.draw.io/)
