# CubeSat Structure
This project involves the design and documentation of a CubeSat structure concept.

This project works well in groups as well as alone. If you want to work in a group on this project, seeking external advice from PAST members on how to approach or modify this project is recommended.

## Background
PAST aims to build and launch a CubeSat, and a vital part of this effort is the structure. A CubeSat's structure is a standardized form factor. There are specifications that must be considered when designing the structure, both external interface requirements and subsystems to accommodate. The purpose of this project is to familiarise yourself with working with external requirements and producing documentation on your designs for other systems to interface with, while gaining familiarity with CubeSat structures. 

The CubeSat must be compatible with the launch vehicle and [deployment module](https://humans-in-space.jaxa.jp/en/biz-lab/experiment/facility/ef/jssod/). All design requirements and considerations are specified in the [JAXA Interface Control Document.](https://humans-in-space.jaxa.jp/kibouser/library/item/jx-espc_8e_en.pdf)

Please contact a PAST Member if you would like to have the files for our prototype CubeSat structures. Designing a structure requires working closely with the team to ensure electrical and mechanical components interface well. For this project, it is not necessary to accommodate real or fictional payloads or subsystems, and only a frame that meets the outlined specifications is necessary.

As we are a student team, it is likely that we will have to do lots of troubleshooting on the CubeSat. Consider design concepts that provide ease of assembly and disassembly.

This project can vary massively based on the level of experience you bring with you. We want to see what you can learn and how you learn, not just a demonstration of your existing knowledge - if you are a novice, do not worry about completing the entire project. If you do not believe this project would develop your technical skills, perhaps choose another.

You will not be judged on the presentability of your work; instead we want to see your ability to interpret external requirements and develop well-documented systems (in this case, through a logbook and your final documentation) that allow other people to work with your designs.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables
#### 1. A summary of the relevant mechanical design requirements for a 1U as specified in the [JAXA Interface Control Document.](https://humans-in-space.jaxa.jp/kibouser/library/item/jx-espc_8e_en.pdf)


#### 2. A research document outlining at least three approaches to CubeSat structures including strengths and weaknesses.
- For each approach, we are looking for at least one example, paired with your understanding of how the structure works and possible advantages and drawbacks. It does not have to be presentable, but instead show that you have researched current cubesat structures.
#### 3. At least one concept design for a CubeSat structure that meets the JAXA requirements.
- This may be a sketch, CAD model, or any way of conveying a conceptual design. 
- The level of detail does not need to be high, the overall concept of the design is the important part. You need to be able to convey the high level concepts of your chosen design
#### 4. A CAD model of the chosen concept in Autodesk Inventor, submitted as a single .zip file.

#### 5. [**OPTIONAL**] FEAs showing that the model meets the JAXA requirements.
- This component is not required. If you are pressed for time, you may skip this component, but it is an excellent way to demonstrate learning
- Finite Element Analysis for this case is not as difficult and time consuming as it may appear. Ensure to contact a PAST member for this step, as it will likely make the process much easier. There is no prize for learning by yourself.
#### 6. Technical drawings of your structure
- Other team members will need to interface with components you design in the future. While you do not need to strictly adhere to any drawing standard, your documentation should make clear all the interfaces of your component (mounting holes, externally facing surfaces, etc.)
- PAST has drawing templates available for Autodesk Inventor - please contact us when you get to this step, since the default templates can be awkward to work with
- If you already have significant inventor experience, we expect you to learn and follow the Australian drawing standards. 


## Resources to get you started
- [JAXA Interface Control Document.](https://humans-in-space.jaxa.jp/kibouser/library/item/jx-espc_8e_en.pdf)
- [Open Source CubeSat Structure](https://github.com/alanbjohnston/CubeSatSim/tree/master/hardware/frame/v2.0)
- [OreSat Structure](https://github.com/oresat/oresat-structure)
- [OreSat Mechanical Architecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0-Tlg6fqUgA)
- [2D Engineering Drawings | Autodesk Inventor 2025 | Basics For Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M9Q5H7vJyvQ)
- Also see the Intro to Mechanical CubeSat Design and FEAs pages for more info!
