# CubeSat Camera Mount
This project involves the design, analysis and documentation of a sub-assembly to fit within a CubeSat and hold a payload of the type PAST aims to launch. 
This project is recommended as a solo project, but could be extended to groups.

## Background
PAST aims to build and launch a CubeSat, and a vital part of this effort is the ability to accommodate a payload. In this case, we are looking to mount an earth-imaging system and the respective support hardware (plus other payloads) onto a frame suitable for a CubeSat.

This project is primarily about demonstrating technical skill with modern CAD software and the ability to design to external requirements - all the requirements are loose. If you are interested in designing something that could interface with an actual CubeSat structure, contact a PAST member to receive the design files for our prototype structures - although this is certainly not necessary.

If you do not want to do this exact project but are interested in a project like this, and would like to do something similar, please contact a PAST member. There are a large number of similar projects that you can use to build relevant competencies - this project could be completed by designing something to accommodate any range of components or in other systems.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables
#### 1. At least one concept design
- This design should adhere to all the requirements outlined in "design requirements" below
- This should be completed as a CAD model
- Display your thought process here. Did you take any inspiration from outside sources? If so, make sure to show your research :D
#### 2. An engineering drawing of the design
- Other team members will need to interface with components you design in the future. While you do not need to strictly adhere to any drawing standard, your documentation should make clear all the interfaces of your component (mounting holes, externally facing surfaces, etc.)
- PAST has drawing templates available for Autodesk Inventor - please contact us when you get to this step, since the default templates can be awkward to work with
#### 3. FEAs showing that the model meets the JAXA requirements for launch.
- Finite Element Analysis for this case is not as difficult and time consuming as it may appear, and the requirements are not particularly strict. Ensure to contact a PAST member for this step, as it will likely make the process much easier. There is no prize for learning by yourself.
- The JAXA requirements can be found in sections 2.1.8 (1), 2.1.9 and 2.4.1 of the JEM Payload Accommodation Handbook - check the resources list
#### 4. An estimate for the cost of the item
- This estimate is relatively simple to perform - the JLC CNC website will do instant quotes for any type of manufacturing. 
- The cost estimate should be a table with the item, quantity and cost required, with a total
- Include any fastenings or any other components required to affix this together, but do not include the cost of the items the frame must accommodate


## Design Requirements
- The frame shall weigh less than 100 grams
- The frame shall fit within a bounding volume of 100 x 100 millimeters horizontally and 15 millimeters vertically
- The frame shall accommodate a Raspberry Pi Camera Module 2 
- The frame shall accommodate a Raspberry Pi Zero
- The frame shall have at least one 40mm x 40mm set of M2 or M3 mounting holes exposed for additional payload on the top or bottom surface
- The frame shall mount to at least one CubeSat rail (see the JEM payload accommodation handbook for details on the arrangement and dimensions of the rails). Note: The rail specifications are very lenient. Use any cutouts or holes in the volume provided. We recommend modelling your own rail for this purpose.
- The frame shall be capable of surviving launch (see deliverable 3)
- The frame shall be made out of 6061 Aluminum 

## Resources to get you started
- [JEM Payload Accommodation Handbook](https://humans-in-space.jaxa.jp/kibouser/library/item/jx-espc_8e_en.pdf)
- [Raspberry Pi Camera Module](https://www.raspberrypi.com/products/camera-module-v2/)
- [Raspberry Pi Camera Module Design Files](https://pip.raspberrypi.com/categories/1205-design-files)
- [Raspberry Pi Zero Documentation](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/computers/raspberry-pi.html#raspberry-pi-zero)
- [2D Engineering Drawings | Autodesk Inventor 2025 | Basics For Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M9Q5H7vJyvQ)
- Also see the Intro to Mechanical CubeSat Design and FEAs pages for more info!
