# Ground Station Mount - Yagi Tracking Antenna
This project involves designing a mount for an antenna, as part of a remotely operated ground station that can track satellites or other objects.

## Background
PAST aims to launch a variety of payloads and missions into the sky, from a student CubeSat to weather balloons holding payloads. A critical part of a mission is returning the valuable data your mission collects, and for this, we'd like to have a computer-controlled antenna that we can use to follow a target. 

This project involves the design of an antenna mounting system that we could use to track across the sky to follow a payload with a small antenna attached.

For this project, we're really interested in your design thought process and how you can research and find designs and components. You could design this antenna mount to host an actual antenna design (either commercially available or PAST's existing antenna), but it's not required at all.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables
#### 1. Research document
- Research multiple different design concepts for two-or-more axis tracking devices and provide a summary of how each design works and its advantages/disadvantages 
- Research a design for a small Yagi UHF antenna to gain an idea of how you might mount an antenna to your tracking mount
- Find appropriate hardware for your design via Mouser, McMaster-Carr or DigiKey and provide links 
#### 2. Concept design
- At least one conceptual design for your model. This could be a sketch, verbal description, or reference existing designs, but your concept should be clear.
- The design should meet the requirements outlined in "Design Requirements" below. If you're looking for details 
- Explain why you think this design is suitable (incl. its ability to meet the requirements)
#### 3. CAD Model
- A CAD model in Inventor of all the critical components as an assembly. If any COTS components (such as a servo motor or gear) do not have readily available 3D models, self-made rough approximations are acceptable in this case. 
- It is recommended to leverage existing materials and components where possible - for example, a current PAST antenna design uses segments measuring tape for antenna wires instead of having to order custom cut-to-shape foil. This may make your design process easier
#### 4. Bill of Materials
- A list of all your components required, the quantity, the material they are made with, and if relevant (i.e., not 3D printed), the price and link. 
#### 5. [OPTIONAL] Assembly Procedure
- All designs have to be assembled - write a short step-by-step procedure for the assembly of the mechanism. It is recommended that you consider your design's ability to be assembled (or even disassembled) during the design process!
- This has been left as optional, but documenting assembly or manufacturing procedures is a vital component of mechanical engineering work at PAST, and is an excellent opporunity to display critical design thinking skills 

## Design Requirements
- The mount shall provide some form of interface for antenna to be attached to (e.g. 40x40mm square of threaded holes, or a circular clamp)  
- The mount shall be capable of pointing the antenna at any point in the sky (i.e, in a rough hemisphere)
- The mount shall be capable of handling an antenna weighing ~0.5kg
- The mount shall not tip over in any orientation
- The mount shall be electrically controllable to reorient itself


## Resources to get you started
- [Example Yagi WiFi Antenna](https://www.amazon.com/Antenna-Connector-Directional-Extension-Security/dp/B0DLZC1WDQ?th=1)
- [Dual Axis Antenna Positioner with Azimuth and Elevation Control](https://youtu.be/NZraZd4Ofpo)
- [W5AIR 2-Axis Antenna Rotator](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q_9QgZ5-6og)
- [AO 51 azimuth elevation rotor for Arrow antenna](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HEvppIyUXOU)
- [Mechanism Designs for Solar Tracking](https://nottingham-repository.worktribe.com/OutputFile/68453721)
- [CRONE multi-SISO control of a 2-axis tracking antenna](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2405896323022115)
