# Deployable Mechanisms
This project involves investigating and designing an alternative deployment mechanism for PAST's CubeSat.

## Background
PAST aims to build and launch a number of high-altitude and space missions. As launch requirements can be very restrictive and hardware often has to be shielded during launch, a key component of maximising a vehicle's capabilities is designing systems that can deploy from a stowed position in space. This project involves performing research and design on a restraining mechanism to permit a CubeSat system to deploy in space. 

The design of CubeSat deployables is a widely-researched, documented problem with many existing products and designs. Successful completion of this project will depend on your ability to thoroughly research and understand various designs, the mechanisms underpinning them, and their advantages and disadvantages. 

A key component of any deployable design is reliability - you don't want to launch a satellite, only for a critical component to fail to deploy. The history of space is filled with missions that could not deploy vital mechanisms! As an example, deployable CubeSat Systems such as antennas and solar panels are often held down by fishing line which melts through application of current. This method can be less reliable than desired because the vibrations and forces during launch may damage the line and cause deployment to malfunction. However, a large number of serviceable designs using burn-wires exist (they are popular for a reason!). Careful consideration of a design is critical.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables
research and documentation heavy
just do a simple cad model of a mechanical part
write an actual report on 3 designs
#### 1. Research & Evaluation
- Identify a case in which a deployable mechanism might be useful in a CubeSat. (You do not have to design for this case, but it will aid your thinking and research)
- Research at least three separate deployable mechanisms for this use-case. For each mechanism, provide a list of sources, a description/image of the mechanism, and a list of advantages and disadvantages of the mechanism
- Provide a list of criteria you'd consider important in the design and selection of a deployable mechanism
- This should be delivered as an in-depth report
#### 2. Concept designs
- Come up with at least two concepts for a deployment mechanism for a CubeSat. Sketches should suffice for this stage - if you have based your design on any existing designs, use those as visual aids. 
- Choose one concept design to model further, and explain why. 

#### 3. CAD model of design
- Produce an inventor assembly model of your design

#### 4. Design Documenation & Reflection 
Document and reflect on your design. Include:
- An image and description of your design
- A list of parts designed or required for your design to work (name, quantity, and if applicable, a link)
- A reflection on how you might assemble this design
- A reflection on your design process and any lessons you learned throughout this process
- A reflection on how confident you are in your design's ability to function, and any next steps you'd take with this design

## Resources to get you started
- [Chapter 15 of Spacecraft Systems Engineering by Fortescue, Swinerd and Stark](https://github.com/PerthAerospaceStudentTeam/Onboarding/blob/03e98766506bd97c4221a7d6729b928994c76b56/0.%20Resources%20%5BSTART%20HERE%5D/General%20CubeSat%20Learning/Spacecraft%20Systems%20Engineering%2C%20Fourth%20Edition%20(%20PDFDrive%20).pdf)
- [A framework for small satellite deployable structures and how to deploy them reliably](https://www.nature.com/articles/s44172-024-00210-7)
- [Mechanisms - A Guide to CubeSat Mission and Bus Design](https://pressbooks-dev.oer.hawaii.edu/epet302/chapter/4-5-mechanisms/)
- [DANY - NASA Article](https://technology.nasa.gov/patent/GSC-TOPS-36)
- [DANY - Technical Report](https://ntrs.nasa.gov/citations/20170001254)
