# Power Distribution Safety
This project is an introductory project that involves creating a PCB that can help protect other subsystems in case the Power Distribution Module (PDM) on the Cubesat malfunctions.

## Background
One of the main functions of the Electronic Power System (EPS) is the distribution of power to all other subsystems in the Cubesat.
Many Integrated Circuit (IC) components have common voltage requirements to function, such as 5V or 3.3V, so Cubesats generally have bus lines for these common voltages.
A bus is a node where a line or several lines are connected and may also include several components such as loads and generators in a power system. 

Cubesats generally orbit at Very Low Earth Orbits (VLEO) or Low Earth Orbits and are commonly found at altitudes of 350km to 500km. 
The Van Allen radiation belts contain energetic protons and electrons that are trapped in the Earth’s magnetic field and generally follow the magnetic field lines.
While these belts are normally found at altitudes of 1000km or above, a phenomenon known as the South Atlantic Anomaly can cause electrons and protons to fall into LEO altitudes.
These charges can cause the EPS to short circuit which can damage subsystems and components if left untreated.

Since this phenomenon occurs very quickly, a circuit needs to be designed to ensure that damage will be prevented to other subsystems in the Cubesat.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables
1. Research and select an appropriate way to monitior the Voltage & Current of a bus
2. Research and write/present in your notes how protection works
3. Research and select an appropriate protection IC
4. Design and outline a method to test your protections
5. Create the PCB to test your IC

## Resources to get you started
- First it's a good idea to gain a high level understanding of EPS, and the role of your chosen sensor/s. Refer to [Electrical Power System](https://github.com/PerthAerospaceStudentTeam/Onboarding/blob/main/2.%20Avionics%20Onboarding/2.2%20Electrical%20Power%20System%20%5BRESOURCE%5D.md).
- Current/Voltage Sensors: Filter through [Mouser](https://au.mouser.com/c/sensors/current-sensors/) 
- Power Management ICs: Filter through [Mouser](https://au.mouser.com/c/semiconductors/power-management-ics/power-switch-ics-power-distribution/)
- You should investigate how to interface sensors with a microcontroller. E.g. What communication protocols are used,
  what microcontroller to use (we have Arduino Nanos, Espressif ESP32s, and STM32 development boards available for testing purposes)

