Antenna Research & Design - Onboarding Project 

##Aims
This project aims to give recruits an opportunity to learn and demonstrate antenna design and radio frequency (RF) fundamentals. Recruits are tasked to research how antennas work in relation to the transceiver and how they interact with the electromagnetic spectrum. Then, recruits will take the research they've made to design 2 antennas. The first antenna will be designed to be onboard the CubeSat, the second antenna designed to be the ground station antenna.  
Recruits need to justify their design choices by referring back to the research conducted and meeting the system requirements outlined to allow uplink & downlink capabilities. 

##Background
An Antenna is used to transmit and receive RF signals. It converts alternating current from the transceiver and propagates the signal into radio waves or alternatively captures incoming radio waves and converts it back into an electrical current for the transceiver to process. There are many proven antennae designs, each of which have qualities you need to consider depending on the application; range, bandwidth, noise, direction, frequency, etc. 

Antennas can be characterised using a set of metrics that indicate their performance and efficiency. This involves the radiation pattern, directivity, gain, Standing Wave Ratio (SWR) & input impedance. It's crucial that you know these concepts before selecting an antenna type and drafting a design. 


Ansys is an engineering simulation software suite used to simulate the performance and behaviour of a designed product. Ansys can allow engineers to simulate structural analysis, fluid dynamics, electromagnetics & 3D design. In this onboarding project you will install Ansys Electronics Desktop Student Software, (which has a built-in license) to simulate antenna designs. A link to install the software can be found in the Intro to Ansys HFSS resources section. 

NOTE: ANSYS is a very large software (zip file is 9 GB) so make sure you have enough storage to install the software and have beefy hardware to run Ansys. 



##CubeSat & Ground Station System Requirements // Project Objectives
- Standing Wave Ratio of 1.5:1 
- Power Constraints [  ]
- Bandwidth [ ]
- Range capable of reaching low earth orbit (480km-500km) 
- Frequency of 433 MHz 
- Antenna meets physical constraints of CubeSat 


##Project Deliverables
1. Research RF fundamentals, antenna characteristics and types. 
	a. Document any research you conduct throughout the project, some resources I've personally found useful can be found on github. 
	b. Learning about RF fundamentals, different types of antennas and their ideal use case or even published papers of current satellite communication systems are helpful. 
	c. Include information such as impedances, advantages/disadvantages and use cases for each antenna type researched. 
		
2. Select and design an antenna  for the onboard transceiver that meets CubeSat System Requirements. Ensure to justify your selection based on use case, characteristics and constraints. 
	a. Ensure you include material for the antenna element (PAST uses steel tape measures and aluminium rods)
	b. Calculate the approximate length of your antenna
		
3. Use Ansys Electronic Desktop Student Software to simulate your antenna design using the measurements and data obtained. 
	a. Ensure you have the correct materials, parameters to simulate and plot antenna characteristics. Include this into your logbook.
	b. Modify the parameters to observe how it affects antenna characteristics, write down any correlations you might discover when changing parameters as well as any improvements you made to the antenna in the logbook. 
		
4. Select and design an antenna for the ground station that will theoretically be able to capture radio waves being emitted from the onboard antenna. Ensure to justify your selection based on use case, characteristics and constraints. This should be easier to achieve as you're designing this antenna to meet the characteristics of the onboard antenna.  
	a. Ensure you include material for the antenna element (PAST uses steel tape measures and aluminium rods)
	b. Calculate the approximate length of your antenna
5. [STRETCH GOAL] Install and utilise Altium Designer to design a PCB that has your antenna design. 
	a. Unfortunately Altium doesn't render typical antennas, but we can implement them as a PCB. The purpose of this deliverable is to introduce you to Altium Designer along with Ansys. 
	b. You'll need to find a solution to attach your antennas to the PCB, along with routing them to a connector. 
	c. A stretch goal gives recruits an opportunity to further the project and learn something new. It's not necessary for the onboarding project to be considered as completed, but if a recruit manages to complete the basic deliverables ahead of schedule they can challenge themselves with this stretch goal. 



## Resources to get you started
- [KikoCUBE Satellite Communications Lecture](https://www.unoosa.org/documents/pdf/psa/access2space4all/KiboCUBE/AcademySeason2/On-demand_Pre-recorded_Lectures/KiboCUBE_Academy_2021_OPL09.pdf)
- [Foundations Amateur Radio License Course](https://res.net.au/) - we have connections for you to take the exam and get a Radio License.
- [Modular Design of RF Front End for a Nanosatellite Communication Subsystem](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/332262214_Modular_Design_of_RF_Front_End_for_a_Nanosatellite_Communication_Subsystem_Tile_Using_Low-Cost_Commercial_Components) 


- Remember to log everything you have done and learnt in your logbook!
