# CubeSat Radio Transceiver
This project involves demodulating AM and FSK radio communications.

## Background
A transciever on a CubeSat enables communication between the satellite and the ground station. Satellite communications are a series of transmissions of modulated electromagnetic waves in the radio frequency range. Ground Stations send radio signals (uplink), while the satellite recieves the signal and processes it. The satellite transmits telemetry or Mission data to earth (downlink).

A key part of the communication step between transcievers is demodulation of the signals received to allow for processing.

## Project Scope
This project will work on demodulating AM radio communications and will be followed by demodulating FSK communications.
The project will involve:
- A Software Defined Radio (SDR). PAST will supply a SDR.
- Software drivers to use a SDR.
- Setting up demodulation blocks using GNURadio to demodulate AM transmissions. (To get comfortable with demodulation)
- Setting sink blocks to store the data, plot data and statistics.
- Setting up demodulation blocks to demodulate FSK transmissions. (Main task)
- Do some exploration on demodulating signals received from transmissions in the area. 

Note:
- You are not allowed to use pre-built demodulation blocks to demodulate AM / FSK signals (as they already exist and would defeat the purpose of this project of learning how demodulation works, and in the chance there is a bug / issue (due to different demodulation steps) you would not understand how to fix it (for FSK))

Extension:
- Demodulate GFSK
- Demodulate FM signals

By the end of the project, you should be able to listen onto some radio transmissions in the area.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables
1. Learn the basics of radio communications and summarise in your logbook. This includes transceivers, frequency bands, modulation techniques (what is modulation, how does it work, what are the types), antennas, SDRs (what is an SDR, how does it work?).
3. Research into modulations which satellites / CubeSats use and how satellites and ground stations achieve link, summarise this in your logbook.
4. Reach out to a PAST member to obtain a SDR, download the necessary drivers & software to utilise the SDR. You will be using GNURadio to demodulate the data (so you need to install this).
5. Test that your SDR is working / drivers are working. One way is to install software such as SDRPP and check that it can receive signals from the SDR.
6. Research further into how to implement AM demodulation in GNURadio (if required) and implement AM demodulation in GNURadio. Note: You are not allowed to use the pre-built AM demodulation block.
7. Test your demodulation against the provided AM recorded transmission. You will need to setup your source to be from a file.
8. Test your demodulation on real-world sources using the SDR to receive transmissions.
9. Repeat steps 6-8 but with a FSK modulation. This will be harder

Extension
- Look into demodulating GFSK signals
- Look into demodulating FM signals
- Look into extra steps that are added to signals (such as whitening, or the G in GFSK). 


## Resources to get you started
- [SDRPP](https://www.sdrpp.org)
- [GNURadio](https://www.gnuradio.org)
- [KikoCUBE Satellite Communications Lecture](https://www.unoosa.org/documents/pdf/psa/access2space4all/KiboCUBE/AcademySeason2/On-demand_Pre-recorded_Lectures/KiboCUBE_Academy_2021_OPL09.pdf)
- [Foundations Amateur Radio License Course](https://res.net.au/) - we have connections for you to take the exam and get a Radio License.

## Sample Files

### [AM_sample_file_PAST_2026_S1](./AM_sample_file_PAST_2026_S1.complex_samples)

The first 15 seconds of "Easy Lemon" by Kevin MacLeod is contained in a single-sideband transmission. The transmission occured at 440.087 MHz, the recording is centered at 440 MHz. The recording is made out of complex samples at a rate 480k samples per second.

### [FSK_sample_file_PAST_2026_S1](./FSK_sample_file_PAST_2026_S1.complex_samples)

A section of ASCII text was transmited at 1200 bps using a 2-FSK transimtion. The deviation is 5 KHz. The transmission occured at 440.04 MHz, the recording is centered at 440 MHz. The recording is made out of complex samples at a rate 120k samples per second.

## Some Frequencies in Perth
Note:
- These frequencies in Perth may change
- Ensure that you are not transmitting in these frequencies (unless you have a license)
- Frequencies have a specific modulation (You may need to figure out which modulation they are using)

- [WA Radio Scanner Users' Group](https://warsug.info) - Contains an archive of frequencies to use
- [Reddit post asking about radio frequencies](https://www.reddit.com/r/perth/comments/18b9hiw/vhf_frequencies_anything_interesting_out_there/)
- 418.275 Transperth Security
- 418.700 Transperth Trains Control
- 163.675 DFES
- 473.250 Possibly Canningvale/Success Area Busses
- 474.750 Possibly Armadale Area Busses
- 489.500/480.200 Swan Taxis
- 489.75 Black and White Cabs
- 472.800 Channel 7
