# EPS Sensors

## Background
- The Electronic Power System of a CubeSat is critical subsytem that is responsible for generating, storing, regulating and
distributing power to all other subsystems.
- Sensors and other ICs are required to monitor the state of the system.
- Sensors/ICs include: Temperature Sensors, Current and Voltage sensors, Fuel Gauges, Battery Protection ICs
- In the past, PAST projects using battery management and Fuel Gauges have not worked 🥲
- It would be useful for more members to be knowledgable in the operation of EPS ICs and sensors for cross-checking other members PCBs and help with the development and integration of EPS.
- This project is also designed to give you more practice with PCB design in Altium.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables
1. Select a sensor or IC from the list above (or one of your own) to test
2. Explain the function of your chosen IC in your logbook.
3. Design methods to test the sensors.
4. Create a PCB to test one or more of these sensors/ICs. 

## Resources to get you started
- First it's a good idea to gain a high level understanding of EPS, and the role of your chosen sensor/s. Refer to [Electrical Power System](https://github.com/PerthAerospaceStudentTeam/Onboarding/blob/main/2.%20Avionics%20Onboarding/2.2%20Electrical%20Power%20System%20%5BRESOURCE%5D.md).
- Current/Voltage Sensors: Filter through [Mouser](https://au.mouser.com/c/sensors/current-sensors/)
- Fuel Gauges: Filter through [Mouser](https://au.mouser.com/c/power/power-management-ics/battery-management/?product=Fuel%20Gauges&srsltid=AfmBOoqlKJcvx1j03eq9GHd3kouau7hvt--Gv9OphdeL7_uOnLwaEds6)
- Battery Protection ICs: Filter through [Mouser](https://au.mouser.com/c/power/power-management-ics/battery-management/?product=Battery%20Protection&srsltid=AfmBOopsz3bUh0yvyioKbz2LXwjDdLfWsL2jcdWO2xwq18d9afvTUFJy)
- You should investigate how to interface sensors with a microcontroller. E.g. What communication protocols are used,
  what microcontroller to use (we have Arduino Nanos, Espressif ESP32s, and STM32 development boards available for testing purposes)

## Tips
- Select components carefuly from the start. Be sure to read and understand the datasheet!
- Define what you want to test and how from the start. Do you need to simulate the conditions of space? Or simulate over-current or over voltage?
- Do your research to understand how EPS architectures are generally structured, and the role of your chosen sensors within the system.
- Feel free to extend this project and research other aspects of EPS, e.g. battery heating, MPPT, Power distribution. E.g. maybe you could link an MPPT regulator to a battery protection IC, and have a connection interface for solar panels and batteries.
- Take notes and maintain documentation 🔥🔥🔥
