# Secondary Flight Storage
This project involves researching possible secondary storage modules for the flight computer along with researching a suitable flight computer. You will design a PCB which contains a storage module and microcontroller.

## Background 
A microcontroller typically contains some storage, however this may not be enough when large amounts of storage is required to be stored. A secondary storage module will typically be used along with a file system.
There is usually two different approaches to storage through electronics, involving magnetic charge or electric charge.
An example of magnetic charge is core memory, which uses iron cores to store data.
An example of electric charge is what would typically be used on a personal computer.

## ☑️ Project Deliverables
1. Find the advantages and disadvantages of secondary storage (such as using magnetic charge vs electric charge, different ICs for storage such as NAND, NOR)
2. Find a suitable IC which can be used, noting down its characteristics (communication protocol will be important later)
3. Research into microcontrollers, and find one which is suitable for the secondary storage module.
4. Design a circuit which will allow communication between the storage module and the microcontroller.
5. Turn the circuit into a PCB in Altium Designer.

## Tips
- Some common microcontrollers may include the rp2040, esp32, stm32
- Consider adding noise filtering
- Ensure your communication protocol requirements are upheld (such as pull-up resistors if required)
- Try maintain signal integrity between the microcontroller and storage module

## Project Extension
- Try to see what software can be used to manage the memory, maybe you could write some

## Resources
- [Functional Flight Storage Repository from PAST](https://github.com/PerthAerospaceStudentTeam/Functional_Flight_Storage)
    - This is an old project, and documentation may not be up to standard